Add `GB Cup 2024 Spring` tournament article (#11044)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/GBC/GBC_2024_Spring/en.md

---
tags:
  - GBC
  - GBC2024
  - GBC 2024
  - GBC 2024 Spring
---

# GB Cup 2024 Spring

> The **GB Cup 2024 Spring** (***GBC 2024 Spring***) was an osu!mania 4K point-based weekly group tournament hosted by Team GB. It was the fifth instalment of the GB Cup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **GB Cup 2024 Spring** (***GBC 2024 Spring***) is a osu!mania 4K point-based weekly group tournament hosted by Team GB. It was the fifth instalment of the GB Cup.
```

> The **GB Cup 2024 Spring** (***GBC 2024 Spring***) was an osu!mania 4K point-based weekly group tournament hosted by Team GB. It was the fifth instalment of the GB Cup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **GB Cup 2024 Spring** (***GBC 2024 Spring***) was an osu!mania 4K point-based weekly group tournament hosted by Team GB. It is the fifth instalment of the GB Cup.
```

| Regular stage 2 | 2024-04-06/2024-04-14 |
| Regular stage 3 | 2024-04-20/2024-04-28 |
| Regular stage 4 | 2024-05-04/2024-05-12 |
| Regular match result showcase | 2024-05-13 (20:00 UTC+08) |
| Playoff stage week 1 | 2024-05-18/2024-05-19 |
| Playoff stage week 2 | 2024-05-25/2024-05-26 |
| Playoff stage Finals | 2024-06-01/2024-06-02 |
| Playoff stage Grand Finals | 2024-06-08/2024-06-09 |

## Prizes

| Placing | Prize(s) |
| :-: | :-- |
| ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-gold.png "playoff stage 1st place") | Profile badge, KanonBot profile badge, *TBA* RMB |
| ![Silver crown](/wiki/shared/crown-silver.png "playoff stage 2nd place") | KanonBot profile badge, *TBA* RMB |
| ![Bronze crown](/wiki/shared/crown-bronze.png "playoff stage 3rd place") | KanonBot profile badge, *TBA* RMB |
| *4th place* | *TBA* RMB |
| *5th place – 6th place* | *TBA* RMB |
| *7th place – 8th place* | *TBA* RMB |
| *9th place – 12th place* | *TBA* RMB |
| *13th place – 16th place* | *TBA* RMB |
| *17th place – 24th place* | *TBA* RMB |
| *Full attendance prize* | KanonBot profile badge (all groups), *TBA* RMB (Group B), *TBA* RMB (Group A), *TBA* RMB (Group S), *TBA* RMB (Group EX) |

## Organisation

> The GB Cup 2024 Spring was run by the Team GB and various community members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GB Cup 2024 Spring is run by the Team GB and various community members.
```

| Mapper | *TBA* |
| Referee | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407) |
| Streamer | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407) |
| Commentator | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407) |
| Designer | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]Voidmoyu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16573996), ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407) |
| Statistician & wiki editor | ::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407) |

## Links

- [Registration form](https://wj.qq.com/s2/14213350/thxh/)
- Livestream
  - [Bilibili stream](https://live.bilibili.com/22545296) (::{ flag=CN }:: [\[GB\]yobrevelc](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14128407))
  - [Bilibili stream](https://live.bilibili.com/10183) (::{ flag=CN }:: [aiyulu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/189617))

> - [GBC QQ Group](https://jq.qq.com/?_wv=1027&k=zqBeTqMW)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GBC QQ group](https://jq.qq.com/?_wv=1027&k=zqBeTqMW)
```

> - [GBC Discord Server](https://discord.gg/qpJjGuYyC5)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GBC Discord server](https://discord.gg/qpJjGuYyC5)
```

   - The total ranking of the mappool is based on the sum of the rankings of each player in each map.
2. Beatmap scoring is based on Score V2.
3. The GB Cup 2024 Spring consists of **4 groups (EX, S, A, and B)**, with only **2 groups** playing each week.
4. The maps for each round will be announced by the mappool selectors on the official stream, on the Saturday before the actual matches take place.
5. Players need to schedule their match time before the start of the match every week.
   - Players with special time requirements need to contact the organiser in advance. The organiser does not guarantee that anyone's request will be met, and players need to properly communicate with the referees.
6. Every week, the referee creates a multiplayer room at the fixed times, and the players who need to play a match could enter the room.
7. There is **no warm-up phase** for the match.
8. Use of the Visual Settings to alter background dim or disable beatmap elements like storyboards and skins is allowed.
   - Custom skin elements **must not** be used to alter core gameplay mechanics.

### Registration

1. Please **fill [this form](https://wj.qq.com/s2/14213350/thxh/)** to register.

>    - Player **must** join [this QQ group](https://jq.qq.com/?_wv=1027&k=zqBeTqMW) or [this Discord Server](https://discord.gg/qpJjGuYyC5) after register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Player **must** join [this QQ group](https://jq.qq.com/?_wv=1027&k=zqBeTqMW) or [this Discord server](https://discord.gg/qpJjGuYyC5) after register.
```

   - If you cannot use QQ, please use osu! or Discord to contact the organiser and use Discord to communicate.
2. To ensure valid and serious registrations, every registered user will be manually checked by the host.
   - **There are no rank limitations for this tournament.**
   - To be successfully registered, a player must not have violated any [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules) within the last 12 months.
   - When registering, the organiser will refer to the player's play counts, heavy derankers and smurfs may be forced to upgrade.
3. A list of all successfully registered players will be published after the registration phase.
4. All successfully registered players will be grouped as follows:

| Group | Player's 4K pp |
| :-: | :-- |
| EX | 9500 and above |
| S | 7000 – 8999 |
| A | 4500 – 6999 |

> | B | 0 – 4499 |

Author: this won't change in zh.md since in Chinese situation there would rarely use comma to separate number

5. If the 4K pp of a player is much higher than the upper limitation of his level, he will be forced to promote into next level. The buffer is *100 pp*.
6. [Tournament staff members](/wiki/Tournaments/Official_support#staff) must not participate as players in the tournament.
7. Organisers may force to promote some players that are considered too strong in their levels.
8. Organisers reserve the right to decline restricted players from participating in the tournament.

> 9. It is allowed for players to request to promote their level. They need to send some result screenshotsof next level to the organiser for getting premission.

Author: they need to send the screenshots of their high level pools play to host for proving that they do have trouble in playing a high level mappool

> 9. It is allowed for players to request to promote their level. They need to send some result screenshotsof next level to the organiser for getting premission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. It is allowed for players to request to promote into a higher level. Such players need to send screenshots of scores from higher-level mappools to the organiser.
```

> 9. It is allowed for players to request to promote their level. They need to send some result screenshotsof next level to the organiser for getting premission.

Author: ah my original meaning is, this rule is both for promote into a higher level or a lower level, but subjective promote (both of them) need to send screenshot

> 9. It is allowed for players to request to promote their level. They need to send some result screenshotsof next level to the organiser for getting premission.

Reviewer 2: going into a lower level would be to "demote", not "promote"

you need to send screenshots proving that you can play an easier mappool?

> 9. It is allowed for players to request to promote their level. They need to send some result screenshotsof next level to the organiser for getting premission.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11044#discussion_r1507899948

### Win conditions

> 1. In the Regular stage, players need to get higher placement in higher level for higher points. The points that can be earned are determined by the placement in every round. The placement according to the average rank for all individual beatmaps in a round.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Regular stage, players need to get high placements in higher levels in order to get more points. The points that can be earned are determined by the placement in every round, which is determined according to the average rank for all individual beatmaps in a round.
```

> 2. We have a base points that depends on the placement per round, and a multiplier that depends on the level of players. Here is the calculation method of points.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. A base amount of points depends on the placement per round, and it is increased by a multiplier that depends on the level of players. The calculation method is as follows:
```

| Placement | Base points |
| :-: | --: |
| 1st place | 20 |
| 2nd place | 19 |
| 3rd place | 18 |
| 4th place | 17 |
| Top 15% | 16 |
| Top 22% | 15 |
| Top 30% | 14 |
| Top 40% | 13 |
| Top 50% | 12 |
| Top 60% | 10 |
| Top 70% | 8 |
| Top 80% | 6 |
| Top 90% | 4 |
| Top 100% | 2 |

> | Level | Multiplier (x is base points) |

Reviewer 2: ok it was "group" before, is "level" the same thing? do players move between levels/groups during the tournament?

Author: Yeah level and group are same thing and always be used together, the prize will calculation separated for every round if they upgrade or reduce. For example, if level B prize is 20 and level A prize is 30, and you played 2 rounds level B and 2 rounds level A, you'll get 25.

Author: has changed all the level to group

| :-: | --: |

> | Level B | x |
> | Level A | 1.5x + 12 |
> | Level S | 2.3x + 30 |
> | Level EX | 3.4x + 57 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Level B | `x` |
| Level A | `1.5x + 12` |
| Level S | `2.3x + 30` |
| Level EX | `3.4x + 57` |
```

> 3. The final qualifier ranking depends on the total amount of points from all 4 rounds. The top 24 players will be able to join the playoff stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The final Qualifier ranking depends on the total amount of points from all 4 rounds. The top 24 players will be able to join the playoff stage.
```

> 3. The final Qualifier ranking depends on the total amount of points from all 4 rounds. The top 24 players will be able to join the playoff stage.

Reviewer 2: qualifier isn't in the schedule

```suggestion
3. The final Regular stage ranking depends on the total amount of points from all 4 rounds. The top 24 players will be able to join the playoff stage.
```

4. The top 8 will play in the winners' bracket, while the top 9–24 will play in the losers' bracket.
5. In case of a tie in the rankings, the player with a lower sum of ranks in every round will take the higher rank.
6. In the playoff stage, players need to win 6 beatmaps in order to win a match during Quarterfinals and Semifinals, and 7 beatmaps in the Finals and Grand Finals.

### Match procedures

1. A referee will create a multiplayer room 5 minutes before the scheduled match time. Players must join the lobby in that period.

>    - The room settings are `Game mode: osu!mania`, `Team mode: Head-to-Head`, and `Score mode: ScoreV2`. The room name must follow the pattern of `GBC 2024 Spr`.

Reviewer 2: `GBC 2024 Spr` looks more like an exact name than a pattern. are all rooms named "GBC 2024 Spr"?

Author: it would be like "GBC 2023 Spring: LvEX round1 Sunday10pm"

Reviewer 2: maybe best to have it like this

```suggestion
   - The room settings are `Game mode: osu!mania`, `Team mode: Head-to-Head`, and `Score mode: ScoreV2`. The room name must follow the pattern of the following example: `GBC 2023 Spring: LvEX round1 Sunday10pm`.
```

> 2. Possible mod choices for the FreeMod bracket are **No Fail**, **Hidden**, **Fade In**, **Flashlight**, and **Mirror**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Possible mod choices for the Free Mod bracket are **No Fail**, **Hidden**, **Fade In**, **Flashlight**, and **Mirror**.
```

> 3. The referees will select the beatmaps in order to play the match. If a player encounters a technical problem during a match, players may request a rematch from the referee after all the beatmaps have been selected.

Reviewer 2: ... right?

```suggestion
3. The referees will select the beatmaps in order to play the match. If a player encounters a technical problem during a match, players may request a rematch from the referee after all the beatmaps have been played.
```

   - "Lag spikes" will not be considered as a valid reason to rematch a beatmap.
   - The rematch should happen after completing scores for the other beatmaps in the mappool.

>    - For the behavior that quit room and request rematch after the map start, it will only be allowed once in a match, and also may vetoed by referee.

Reviewer 2: i don't understand what this means at all (and dare i say it looks machine-translated)

Author: Not machine-translated but really hard to explain.
According to the rules above, it is allowed to request for a rematch for the technical issue. But someone will directly quit the room or afk after a miss and claim they have technical issue, so in order to prevent such abuse behavior more clearly, I added this limit.

Reviewer 2: you already have `This rule should not to be abused. Referees may veto a rematch request if they find that this is the case.`, so you don't even need this rule. you could just call such behaviour foul play and reject the rematch

Author: Such players will claim we abuse "the rule of abuse", it is just a realistic experience that we'd better clarify something that spy the rule boundaries, or they do will do that and say you didn't prohibit such behavior in rule.

Reviewer 2: to clarify, this is just a limit for rematching, right?

```suggestion
   - This is only allowed once per match and may also be vetoed by the referee.
```

Author: Yes it is. But the reason why I emphasize "quit room" is, there are still some players will directly disappear between maps, like they stuck in the score page and can't quit the room or join again, so such thing we don't have limit of rematch. Such technical issue is really common (especially in CN, we'll call it as "corpse"), so I have to clarify it more clearly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Quitting the room and requesting a rematch after the map starts will only be allowed once in a match, and may also be vetoed by a referee.
```

>    - This rule should not to be abused. Referees may veto a rematch request if they find that this is the case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - This rule is not to be abused. Referees may veto a rematch request if they find that this is the case.
```

7. All players and staff must be treated with respect. Instructions from referees and the host are to be followed. Decisions labelled as final are not to be objected.
8. The multiplayer chat rooms underlie the [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules).
9. Disrupting the match by foul play or seed manipulation will result in disqualification, and any such players will be announced.
10. Unexpected incidents will be handled by the host. Referees may allow higher tolerance depending on the given circumstances. This is up to their discretion.
11. The host may request liveplays or recordings of individual players at any point.
12. The host reserves the right to modify these rules at any moment. Any such changes will be announced in advance.

### Mappool information

1. Each group has four mappools, and each group uses one mappool per round.

> 2. Each mappool consists of 7 beatmaps that will all be played under [FreeMod](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier#freemod) conditions. This means that there is a unique FreeMod bracket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Each mappool consists of 7 beatmaps that will all be played under [Free Mod](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier#freemod) conditions. This means that there is a unique Free Mod bracket.
```

3. The type of beatmap included in the mappool is not fixed.

### Scheduling information

1. Each stage of the tournament is played during **2 weeks**.
   - Group EX will play in the same week as Group S, and Group A in the same week as Group B.
2. All matches will be held between Saturday 08:00, and Sunday 23:59 (UTC+08), save for exceptional circumstances.
3. The organiser will provide alternative tournament slots before the start of matches each week, creating a schedule that is satisfactory to all players.
   - In case a special match time is required, please inform the organiser in advance. The organiser will try to fulfill the requirements of all players, but **cannot** make any guarantees.
4. Matches may not be scheduled to any time **beyond Sunday, 23:59 (UTC+08)** of the week they are to be played at.

>    - Even if needed, the match must be completed by next Wednesday; later reschedule requests will be rejected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Even if needed, the match must be completed by the next Wednesday; later reschedule requests will be rejected.
```

   - **Do not ask for a reschedule unless it is absolutely needed. The host reserves the right to deny any reschedule requests.**

### Playoff stage

> The rules are largely the same as in the regular season.

Reviewer 2: what does "season" mean here? it was never mentioned

Author: wrong typing, will change

1. The organiser will invite some players from the EX group to participate in the playoffs.
2. There will be four separate mappools for each playoff round, with a varying number of beatmaps of different types:

| Stage | Beatmaps |
| :-- | :-- |
| Quarterfinals & Semifinals | 6 RC, 3 HB, 3 LN, and 1 TB |
| Finals & Grand Finals | 7 RC, 3 HB, 4 LN, and 1 TB |

3. Players will have 2 minutes to pick and ban a beatmap, and 2 minutes to get ready. If a player takes more time than allowed, the procedures adopted will be as follows:
   - For map bans, the player forfeits the ban.
   - For map picks, a random map will be chosen from the mappool using `!roll X`, where `X` is the number of maps that were neither picked nor banned, excluding the tiebreaker.

>    - For a ready timer, the referee will use `!mp start 10` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - For a ready timer, the referee will use the `!mp start 10` command.
```

   - **There are no rank limitations for this tournament.**
   - To be successfully registered, a player must not have violated any [osu! community rules](/wiki/Rules) within the last 12 months.
   - When registering, the organiser will refer to the player's play counts. Heavy derankers and smurfs may be forced to upgrade to a higher group (see below table).
3. A list of all successfully registered players will be published after the registration phase.
4. All successfully registered players will be grouped as follows:

| Group | Player's 4K pp |
| :-: | :-- |
| EX | 9,500 and above |
| S | 7,000–8,999 |
| A | 4,500–6,999 |
| B | 0–4,499 |

5. If the 4K pp of a player is much higher than the upper limit of their group, they will be forced to promote into the next group. The buffer is *100 pp*.
6. [Tournament staff members](/wiki/Tournaments/Official_support#staff) must not participate as players in the tournament.
7. Organisers may force to promote some players that are considered too strong in their groups.
8. Organisers reserve the right to decline restricted players from participating in the tournament.

> 9. It is allowed for players to request to promote their group. They need to send some result screenshots of next group to the organiser for getting premission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. It is allowed for players to request to change their level. Such players need to send screenshots of scores from higher-level mappools to the organiser.
```
